Now that we know how to
create our own functions,
let's also explore a few of
Python's built-in functions.
As we discussed previously,
built-in functions are
functions that exist
within Python and can
be called directly.
Our only job is to call them by
their name! And we've
already described a few
throughout the course;
for example, Python's
print() and type() functions.
Let's quickly review those
two built-in functions
before learning about new ones!
First, print() outputs a
specified object to the screen.
And then, the type() function returns
the data type of its input.
Previously, we've been using
functions independently
from one another.
For example, we asked
Python to print
something, or we asked
Python to return the
data type of something.
As we begin to explore
built-in functions,
we'll often need to use
multiple functions together.
We can do this by passing
one function into
another as an argument.
For example, in
this line of code,
Python first returns the
data type of "Hello" as a string.
Then, this returned value is
passed into the print() function.
This means the data type of
string will be printed
to the screen.
print() and type()
are not the only
functions you'll
see used together in this way.
In all cases, the general
syntax is the same.
The inner function is
processed first and then
its returned value is passed
to the outer function.
Let's consider another aspect
of working with
built-in functions.
When working with functions,
you have to understand what
their expected inputs
and outputs are.
Some functions only
expect specific data types
and will return a type error
if you use the wrong one.
Other functions need
a specific amount
of parameters or return
a different data type.
The print() function, for example
can take in any data
type as its input.
It can also take in any
number of parameters,
even ones with
different data types.
Let's explore the input and
output of the print() function.
We'll enter three arguments.
The first contains
string data.
Then, a comma is used to
separate this from
the second argument.
This second argument
is an integer.
Finally, after another comma,
our third argument
is another string.
Now, let's run this code.
Perfect! This printed
out just as expected!
The type() function also
takes in all data types,
but it only accepts
one parameter.
Let's explore this
input and output too.
Our first line of code
will first determine
the data type of
the word "security" and
then pass what it returns
into a print() function.
And the second line of
code will do
the same thing with
the value of 73.2.
Now, let's run this
and see what happens.
Python first returns output that
tells us that the word
"security" is string data.
Next, it returns another
line of output that tells
us that 73.2 is float data.
Now, we know what to
consider before using
a built-in function.
We have to know exactly
how many parameters it
requires and what data
types they can be.
We also need to know
what kind of output it produces.
Let's learn a couple of
new built-in functions
and think about this.
We'll start with max().
The max() function returns
the largest numeric
input passed into it.
It doesn't have a
defined number of
parameters that it accepts.
Let's explore the max() function.
We'll pass three arguments
into max() in the
form of variables.
So let's first define
those variables.
We'll set the value of a to 3,
b to 9,
and c to 6.
Then, we'll pass
these variables into
the max() function and print
them. Let's run this.
It tells us the highest
value among those is 9.
Now, let's study
one more built-in function:
the sorted() function.
The sorted() function sorts
the components of a list.
This function can be very
useful in a security setting.
When working with lists,
we often have to sort them.
With lists of numbers,
we sort them from smallest to
largest or the
other way around.
With lists of string data,
we might need to sort
them alphabetically.
Imagine you have a
list that contains
usernames in your organization
and you wanted to sort
them alphabetically.
Let's use Python's sorted()
function for this.
We'll specify our list through a
variable named usernames.
In this list, we'll include
all of the usernames
we want to sort.
Now, we'll use the
sorted() function to
sort these names by passing
the usernames variable into it.
And then we'll pass its output into
the print statement so it can
be displayed on the screen.
When we run it, everything
is now in order!
These are just a few of
the built-in functions
available for your use.
As you work more in Python,
you'll become familiar with
others that can help
you in your programs.